FOR CENTURIES
FISHING WAS DONE
IN AN ENVIRONMENTALLY
FRIENDLY WAY.
LESS FISH WERE
EXTRACTED FROM THE WATER
THAN THOSE THAT
COULD REPRODUCE.
WITH THE ADVENT OF
INDUSTRIAL FISHING
IN THE 19TH CENTURY,
NORTHERN EUROPEAN COASTS
BEGAN TO SHOW
THE FIRST SIGNS OF
UNSUSTAINABLE
FISHING ACTIVITY.
SINCE THEN, SUCCEEDING
DECADES HAVE WITNESSED
A DROP IN WORLDWIDE
FISH POPULATIONS.
THE EFFECTS OF OVER
EXPLOITATION HAVE GROWN
TO SUCH AN EXTENT THAT
TODAY ONLY HALF OF ALL
COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE
SPECIES HAVE RUN OUT
AND ONLY ONE QUARTER
OF FISH RESOURCES
ARE CONSTANTLY
AVAILABLE.
AT THIS LEVEL OF OUT OF
CONTROL EXPLOITATION,
IN JUST 20 YEARS
AGE-OLD RECIPES SUCH AS
POTATOES AND COD OR
HERRINGS AND VINEGAR
WILL BE RELEGATED TO
HISTORICAL ARCHIVES.
THE FISH WE EAT HAVE A GREAT
CAPACITY TO REPRODUCE.
MAN CAN FISH
THEM INDEFINITELY
IF HE RESPECTS A
VERY SIMPLE RULE.
AVOID OVER
EXPLOITATION.
BUT IT HAPPENS.
INDUSTRIAL FISHING IS
BREAKING ALL BARRIERS.
FISHING IS AT AN ALL
TIME HIGH AND THE LOSSES
SUSTAINED THUS FAR
CANNOT BE RECUPERATED.
EXCESSIVE FISHING USES
UP EXISTING RESOURCES.
THE SMALLER
THE POPULATION,
THE SMALLER THEIR
CAPACITY TO REPRODUCE.
THIS IS WHAT IS GOING
ON IN OUR OCEANS.
EXCESSIVE FISHING IS
CAUSING A TOTAL COLLAPSE,
A DISAPPEARANCE OF WELL
KNOWN SPECIES SUCH AS
COD, RED TUNA,
OR HAKE.
SINCE THE ADVENT OF
MODERN REFRIGERATION
IN CARGO PLANES IT
HAS BECOME POSSIBLE
TO TRANSPORT
PERISHABLE ARTICLES
IN VERY LITTLE TIME,
AND BECAUSE OF THIS,
FISH PRODUCTS HAVE
BECOME COMMERCIALIZED
AT A WORLD LEVEL.
IN WHOLESALE MARKETS
IT'S POSSIBLE TO BUY FISH
THAT WAS CAPTURED
JUST 48 HOURS EARLIER
ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE PLANET.
AS A CONSEQUENCE
OF THIS
DEMAND HAS
DRASTICALLY INCREASED,
A GROWTH IN SUPPLY AND
DEMAND THAT IS OBLIVIOUS
TO THE REAL CAPACITIES
OF SUSTAINED PRODUCTION.
A LARGE PART OF
THE FISH IMPORTED BY
INDUSTRIALIZED
NATIONS COMES FROM
THE WATERS OF
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.
EUROPEAN NATIONS IMPORT HALF
OF THE FISH THEY CONSUME.
THIS IS THE REASON
WHY FOR MANY YEARS
THE EUROPEAN UNION
NEGOTIATES FISHING DEALS
IN ORDER TO CONSERVE
ITS OWN RESOURCES.
THE EU HAS FISHING ACCORDS
WITH 15 NATIONS IN AFRICA,
THE CARIBBEAN, AND
THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
THESE DEALS ARE USUALLY
SEALED IN EXCHANGE FOR
ECONOMIC COMPENSATION.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF
EXCESSIVE FISHING ARE
USUALLY PAID BY FISHERMEN
IN POOR COUNTRIES.
THIS IS A DIRECT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
OVER EXPLOITATION
AND POVERTY.
MAURITANIA IS A
CLEAR EXAMPLE.
THE WEALTH OF FISH IN ITS
WATERS HAS FED FISHERMEN
AND THEIR FAMILIES
FOR GENERATIONS.
TODAY, HOWEVER, ITS
COASTS ARE EXPLOITED BY
INDUSTRIAL FISHERIES,
BOTH LEGAL AND ILLEGAL.
THE NORTHERN FRINGE OF
THE SEA OF MAURITANIA
OFF THE COAST OF SAHEL
WAS UNTIL NOT TOO LONG AGO
ONE OF THE RICHEST
AREAS IN THE WORLD
IN TERMS OF
MARINE LIFE.
OVER THE LAST
THREE DECADES,
HUGE JAPANESE,
RUSSIAN, AND EUROPEAN
FISH FARMS HAVE
DEPLETED THESE WATERS
WITH THE BLESSINGS
OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
LARGE CARGO SHIPS
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD
DEVASTATE THE
AFRICAN COAST.
AT THE SAME TIME, AND
IN FIERCE COMPETITION
WITH THEM, THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE MAKE A LIVING
BY FISHING IN THE
TRADITIONAL WAY.
IT IS AN
UNEVEN BATTLE.
THE PORT OF NOUAKCHOTT
IS ONE OF THE HUBS OF
OLD FASHIONED FISHING ON
THE WEST AFRICAN COAST.
IT IS A UNIVERSE UNTO
ITSELF - A WORLD OF MEN
WHO WORK TOGETHER,
WITHOUT OUTSIDE HELP,
COLLABORATING IN THEIR
OWN SEA ADVENTURE.
ALONG THE NORTHERN
COAST OF MAURITANIA
THERE ARE MANY
COMMUNITIES OF FISHERMEN.
MOST OF THEM HAVE BEEN
THE ONLY INHABITANTS
OF THESE LANDS
FOR CENTURIES.
THE IMRAGUEN PEOPLE
HAVE LIVED ALONG
THE MAURITANIAN
COASTLINE FOREVER.
THEY ALSO LIVE AMONGST
THE CONTRADICTIONS
OF MODERN-DAY LIFE.
THEY'RE PROTECTED BY
NATURAL RESERVE LAWS,
YET IT IS THOSE VERY
LAWS THAT DENY THEM
THE ABILITY
TO PROGRESS.
TODAY THERE ARE 800
IMRAGUEN LIVING IN
ARGUIN BANC
NATIONAL PARK.
THEY HAVE WOKEN
UP EARLY TODAY
TO FISH THEIR
DAILY SUSTENANCE.
THE ONLY MEANS
BY WHICH THEY ARE
ALLOWED TO SURVIVE
IS BY FISHING...
AND ONLY UNDER
VERY STRICT RULES.
THE IMRAGUEN EMPLOY VERY
TRADITIONAL FISHING METHODS.
ONCE THEY REACH
THE SHORELINE,
THE MEN SEARCH FOR
A BANK OF FISH.
THEY WORK DISCREETLY,
SILENTLY, AMBUSHING
THEIR PREY LIKE VERITABLE
MARITIME FELINES.
THE MEN FORM
GROUPS OF SIX.
THREE OF THEM CARRY
NETS IN THE WATER
WHILE THE OTHER THREE
DO THE SAME ON THE SHORE.
THEY'VE SPOTTED A
LARGE GROUP OF MULLETS
AND THEY SILENTLY
CLOSE IN,
ENSURING THAT THEY WON'T
ESCAPE TO DEEPER WATERS.
WHEN THEY'RE SUFFICIENTLY
CLOSE AND WHILE THE MEN IN
THE WATER SURROUND THE
FISH, THE SHORE KEEPERS
POUND THE WATER TO DRIVE
THEM TOWARDS THE NETS.
IT HAS TO BE DONE
QUICKLY AND IN COMPLETE
COORDINATION, ENSURING
THAT THE FISHES' ONLY
CHOICE IS TO HEAD TOWARDS
THEIR NYLON ENCLOSURE.
IMRAGUEN HAVE ALWAYS
FISHED THIS WAY
- FROM THE SHORELINE.
THE USE OF SMALL
SAILBOATS IS RECENT
AND IT WAS INTRODUCED
BY SAILORS FROM THE
CANARY ISLANDS TOWARDS THE
END OF THE 19TH CENTURY.
THERE'S AN OLD LEGEND THAT
WAS FURTHER PROPAGATED
BY NATURALIST JACQUES
COUSTEAU WHICH STATES THAT
THE IMRAGUEN EMPLOYED
DOLPHINS TO HELP THEM
CAPTURE THEIR FISH.
ACCORDING TO THE
LEGEND, MAN AND DOLPHIN
COMMUNICATE THROUGH
A SECRET LANGUAGE.
THE DOLPHINS RECEIVE
THEIR ORDERS FROM MAN
AND DIRECT FISH
TOWARDS THE NETS.
UNFORTUNATELY THIS
IS ONLY A LEGEND.
THERE ARE MANY DOLPHINS IN
THIS REGION AND IT IS TRUE
THAT FISHERMEN USE THEM TO
LOCATE LARGE SCHOOLS OF FISH,
BUT THAT IS THE EXTENT
OF THEIR COLLABORATION.
THE IMRAGUEN USUALLY
CAPTURE MULLET
BECAUSE THEY MOVE
IN LARGE GROUPS
AND STAY CLOSE
TO THE SHORELINE.
HOWEVER, IT IS NOT A
GREAT PRIZE FISH FOR THEM
SINCE THEY HAVE LITTLE VALUE
IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
AND CAN BE SOLD ONLY TO
SMALL INTERNAL MARKETS
SO THEY'RE USED MAINLY
FOR THEIR OWN CONSUMPTION.
THE IMRAGUEN SEEM TO
LIVE IN A TIME CAPSULE
IN AN IDYLLIC UNIVERSE.
BUT NOTHING COULD BE
FURTHER FROM THE TRUTH.
BEHIND THIS
UTOPIAN APPEARANCE
LIES A MORE
TROUBLED TRUTH.
THE IMRAGUEN ARE NOT
IMMUNE TO THE PROBLEMS
OF FISHERMEN IN THE
REST OF THE WORLD.
HOW CAN THEIR
RIGHT TO DEVELOP
BE RECONCILED WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS?
THEY'RE ALSO NOT IMMUNE TO
THE DILEMMA OF COMBINING
ANCIENT TRADITIONS WITH
MODERN-DAY CHALLENGES.
IS IT POSSIBLE TO
ADAPT TO PROGRESS
WITH A SENSE OF RESPECT
FOR THEIR IDENTITY
WHILE MAINTAINING THEIR RIGHT
TO CONSERVE THEIR CULTURE
AND AT THE SAME TIME
MEET HUMANITY'S NEED
FOR CULTURES
TO BE PRESERVED?
IMRAGUEN FACE UNFAIR
COMPETITION IN THEIR
DAILY FIGHT
FOR SURVIVAL.
THEY CANNOT
USE MOTORBOATS,
BUT NOBODY PROHIBITS
FOREIGN MOTOR VESSELS
FROM ENTERING
PROTECTED WATERS
AND DOING EVERYTHING
THAT THEY CANNOT.
THEY'RE COMPLETELY BOUND
BECAUSE THEY'RE DENIED
THE POSSIBILITY TO PROGRESS
WHILE THEIR FISH DISAPPEAR
BECAUSE NOBODY
CONTROLS THE LARGE
INTERNATIONAL VESSELS
THAT MAKE THEM DISAPPEAR.
NORMALLY A FISHING OUTING
DOESN'T GO PAST NOON.
AS THEY HEAD BACK HOME,
NAVIGATING IN THE CALM
AND SHALLOW WATERS
OF THE ARGUIN BANC,
THEY PREPARE THE
FOOD THEMSELVES.
(SINGING)
THIS SITUATION
DOESN'T ONLY AFFECT
DEVELOPING NATIONS.
MANY CONSUMERS ARE UNAWARE
OF THE GRAVE CRISIS
THAT THREATENS FISH
AS A SOURCE OF FOOD.
BUT WE HAVE
REACHED OUR LIMIT.
THERE ARE ALREADY
MORE BOATS THAN FISH.
ONLY IN EUROPE THERE'S
A SURPLUS OF 40%.
THIS BUSINESS HAS BECOME
VERY UNPROFITABLE,
EVEN FOR LARGE
FISHING COMPANIES.
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS: THE
INDUSTRY LOCATES AN AREA
THAT ATTRACTS AN
INCREASING NUMBER
OF FISHING VESSELS.
FOR SOME TIME
BUSINESS FLOURISHES
AND THE VOLUME OF FISH
CAPTURED REACHES A PEAK.
THE WATERS ARE EXPLOITED
WITHOUT ANY CONTROLS,
WITHOUT ALLOWING FOR THE
REGENERATION OF SPECIES.
THUS POPULATIONS DECLINE,
MAKING WORK MUCH HARDER.
UNTIL A FEW YEARS AGO,
WHEN THIS HAPPENED
ANOTHER FISH RICH
AREA WAS FOUND.
BUT THERE ARE NO
MORE LEFT TO EXPLOIT.
NOW BOATS SPEND LONGER
TIME EXPLOITING THE
WATERS' RESOURCES, AND IN
ORDER TO AVOID LOSSES,
EVEN THE LAST
SPECIES IS TAKEN.
SCIENTISTS FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL
FOR THE EXPLORATION OF
THE SEA HAVE FOR YEARS
BEEN RECOMMENDING,
FOR INSTANCE,
THAT COD NOT BE FISHED
IN THE NORTH SEA
OR RED TUNA IN THE
MEDITERRANEAN SEA.
THESE POPULATIONS HAVE
BEEN SO DRASTICALLY
REDUCED THAT THEY'RE IN
DANGER OF BECOMING EXTINCT.
MANY DON'T REACH MATURITY,
AND BECAUSE OF THIS
BIRTH RATES AMONG THESE
SPECIES IS VERY LOW.
IN ORDER TO SAVE THEM,
THE ONLY POSSIBILITY
IS TO FORBID THEIR
CAPTURE - A SOLUTION
THAT IS FAR FROM
BEING IMPLEMENTED.
ANOTHER DANGER THAT
THREATENS SEA LIFE
IS THE PROLIFERATION
OF ILLEGAL FISHING.
THIS IS CARRIED OUT BY
VESSELS THAT DO NOT SAIL
UNDER THEIR HOME FLAG.
THESE VESSELS TEND TO
SAIL UNDER SO-CALLED
"CONVENIENCE" FLAGS,
SUCH AS THOSE OF BELIZE,
HONDURAS, OR
ST. VINCENT.
THEY FISH IN REMOTE REGIONS
THAT ARE HARD TO CONTROL.
IT IS PRACTICALLY
IMPOSSIBLE TO PROTECT
FISHING RESOURCES OR TO
EXPLOIT SAID RESOURCES
IN A SUSTAINABLE MANNER
WHEN ILLEGAL FISHING
AND A LACK OF FISHING
CONTROLS TAKES PLACE.
IT IS ESTIMATED THAT
FOR SOME SPECIES
ILLEGAL FISHING
ACCOUNTS FOR A THIRD
OF THE VOLUME OF
WHAT IS CAPTURED.
THUS ILLEGAL FISHING
IS ALSO RESPONSIBLE
FOR OVER EXPLOITATION.
THESE VESSELS AVOID
CONTROLS AND VIOLATE
FISHING AGREEMENTS BECAUSE
THE COUNTRIES THAT ALLOW
THEM TO CONDUCT THEIR
ACTIVITIES DO NOT RATIFY
THE NECESSARY ACCORDS OR
CONVENTIONS AND DO NOT
EXERCISE ANY CONTROL
OVER THEIR OWN FLEETS.
QUITE OFTEN THE TRUE
OWNERS OF THESE VESSELS
LIVE IN JAPAN,
THE UNITED STATES,
OR IN EU COUNTRIES.
THE AFRICAN COAST IS
AN EXAMPLE OF WASTE
AND OVER EXPLOITATION.
NEAR THE AFRICAN HORN IN
DJIBOUTI, LOCAL FISHERMEN
HAVE FOREVER FISHED
IN ORDER TO SURVIVE.
THE PARENTS AND
GRANDPARENTS
OF THESE FISHERMEN
WERE PEARL DIVERS.
FOR CENTURIES RED SEA
PEARLS WERE HIGHLY PRIZED
IN THE ORIENT.
ENTIRE FAMILIES
DIVED FOR PEARLS
THAT THEY THEMSELVES
SOLD TO MIDDLEMEN
WHO ARRIVED BY BOAT
FROM JAPAN AND INDIA.
A FEW YEARS AGO THE
GOVERNMENT GRANTED
A FRENCH MONOPOLY
SOLE CONCESSION
OVER PEARL DIVING
AND BECAUSE OF THIS
LOCAL DIVERS WERE FORCED
TO REINVENT THEMSELVES.
MANY STOPPED DIVING AND
EMIGRATED TO CITIES,
WHILE OTHERS BEGAN FISHING
FOR LOBSTERS AND SOLD THEM
TO RESORT HOTELS ON
DJIBOUTAN BEACHES.
THEY USUALLY
FISH NEAR MOUCHA,
ONE OF THE MOST
TOURISTIC ISLANDS.
THESE ISLANDS WERE ONCE
A REFUGE FOR PIRATES
AND CONTRABAND DEALERS.
TODAY THEY ARE NATURAL
RESERVES WITH MANGROVES
AND CORALS THAT
ARE SAFEGUARDED
AS IF THEY WERE THE
REAL TREASURE ISLAND.
HUNTING FOR SHARK
IS MORE TRADITIONAL
THAN FISHING
FOR LOBSTER.
GULF WATERS ARE RICH IN
RESOURCES SUCH AS SHARK
WHICH HAVE A
HIGH MARKET VALUE
IF THEY'RE
SOLD IN PARTS.
SHARK FISHING USUALLY
TAKES PLACE AROUND
THE ISLANDS OF
THE SEVEN BROTHERS,
WHICH BOASTS SOME OF THE
MOST BEAUTIFUL SCENERY
IN ALL OF DJIBOUTI.
THEIR NAME STEMS FROM AN
IMPORTANT LEGEND TO THE
LOCALS WHICH TELLS OF
SEVEN TERRIBLE FOREIGNERS
WHO FOR MANY YEARS
ASSAULTED BOATS AND LOCAL
POPULATIONS THROUGHOUT
THE YEMENITE COAST.
THESE PIRATES WERE
BROTHERS AND IN THEIR PATH
NOT A SINGLE SETTLEMENT
WAS LEFT IN WHICH THE
LOCAL WOMEN WERE NOT RAPED
NOR PROPERTY PLUNDERED.
NONE OF THE SULTANS THAT
GOVERNED THESE TERRITORIES
HAD THE POWER TO STOP
THESE SIBLING PIRATES.
THEY MOVED ABOUT IN SMALL
VESSELS, ATTACKING AND
DISAPPEARING LIKE TRUE
ASSAULT COMMANDOS.
ONLY THE FORCES OF
NATURE COULD STOP THEM.
ONE NIGHT AS
THEY SAILED,
A TERRIBLE STORM SURPRISED
THEM ON THESE COASTS.
THE VENGEFUL
FORCE OF THE WINDS
TURNED THE SEVEN BROTHERS
INTO SEVEN ISLANDS.
NOTWITHSTANDING THEIR
BEAUTY, THIS AREA IS
ONE OF THE MOST
TEMPEST-RIDDEN OF THE GULF
IN WHICH STRONG GALES
AND STORMS ARE THE NORM.
THE SEVEN BROTHERS
WERE FOREVER CONDEMNED
TO BEING POUNDED BY
STRONG, RELENTLESS WAVES.
THESE ARE GREAT WATERS,
THOUGH, FOR SHARK FISHING.
SHARKS ARE NOT EASY TO
CATCH, FOR THEY REQUIRE
PATIENCE AND STRENGTH
IN ORDER TO MAKE THEM
REACH THE SURFACE.
A SHARK IS
COMPLETELY USED UP.
THE BEST SHARK MEAT
COMES FROM THE YOUNGEST
OF THE SPECIES.
ITS SKIN IS USED AS
SANDPAPER AND ITS TEETH,
IF THEY'RE BIG ENOUGH,
ARE SOLD TO TOURISTS.
BUT WITHOUT A DOUBT
THE MOST COVETED PRIZE
IS ITS FIN WHICH
IS KEPT AND SOLD TO
ASIAN BUSINESSMEN AT
EXORBITANT PRICES.
THE SICKNESS OF OUR WATERS
IS NOT ONLY A CONSEQUENCE
OF OVER EXPLOITATION.
ONE THIRD OF ALL MARINE
LIFE CAPTURED IN FISHING
NETS OF INDUSTRIAL FISHING
INTERESTS ARE ACCESSORY -
UNWANTED, TOO SMALL, OR
SIMPLY STRAY SPECIES
SUCH AS TURTLES, SEA BIRDS,
SEALS, OR DOLPHINS.
MILLIONS OF TONS OF
SUCH LIVING BEINGS
ARE JETTISONED
AND LEFT TO DIE.
FOR EVERY TON OF SOLE THAT
IS FISHED, 11 MILLION TONS
OF SO-CALLED "ACCESSORY"
SPECIES ARE CAPTURED.
FISHING ONE TON OF SHRIMP
ENTAILS THE KILLING
OF UP TO 15 TONS
OF OTHER SPECIES.
THIS IS THE RESULT
OF NON-SELECTIVE
FISHING TECHNIQUES.
THE HUGE SPAN OF THE NETS
USED IN DEEP SEA FISHING
USUALLY DRAGS IN ANYTHING
THAT CROSSES ITS PATH.
THE USE OF TRAWL
NETS OR GILL NETS
IS PARTICULARLY
IRRESPONSIBLE.
THEY ACT AS INVISIBLE
CURTAINS THAT FLOAT
IN THE WATER AND
ARE IMPERCEPTIBLE
TO MARINE MAMMALS
AND OTHER ANIMALS
THAT STRAY
NEAR THE SURFACE.
THOSE NETS STAY AFLOAT
AND ARE POSITIONED BY
MARINE CURRENTS
OR WIND.
ALTHOUGH THE USE OF
NETS THAT ARE MORE THAN
TWO AND A HALF KILOMETERS
WIDE IS ILLEGAL,
NETS OF UP TO 50
KILOMETERS WIDE ARE
PERMANENTLY FLOATING ADRIFT
IN OUR SEAS AND OCEANS.
THESE GILL NETS AND TRAWL
NETS CONSTITUTE A MAJOR
THREAT BECAUSE OF THE
UNCONTROLLED CAPTURE
OF ACCESSORY SPECIES.
LONG LINE FISHING
IS ALSO A PROBLEM.
IT IS A VERY COMMON
TECHNIQUE THAT CONSISTS OF
A LONG LINE, SOMETIMES
REACHING MANY KILOMETERS
IN LENGTH, TO WHICH
THOUSANDS OF HOOKS ARE TIED.
AND IT IS ALSO
ANOTHER PERPETRATOR
OF UNWANTED KILLINGS OF
MARINE TURTLES OR BIRDS.
DRIFT NETS ALSO
GRAVELY ENDANGER
THE MARINE ECOSYSTEM.
14TH CENTURY ENGLISH
FISHERMEN MANIFESTED
THEIR PREOCCUPATION FOR
THE EFFECTS OF THE NETS
THEY USED ON SEA BEDS.
THREE CENTURIES LATER
THEIR DUTCH COLLEAGUES
WENT AS FAR AS DEMANDING
THAT THE USE OF DRIFT NETS
BE CURTAILED BECAUSE
THIS TECHNIQUE DIMINISHED
THEIR CAPACITY TO
FISH EFFECTIVELY.
THESE NETS PLOW THE
SEA BEDS THEY COME INTO
CONTACT WITH, UNCOVERING
ORGANISMS USED TO LIVING
UNDERGROUND AND BURYING
OTHERS THAT ARE NOT.
THE USE OF POISONS SUCH
AS CYANIDE AND EXPLOSIVES
SUCH AS DYNAMITE ARE AMONG
OTHER LARGE SCALE FISHING
TECHNIQUES AND TAKE PLACE
MAINLY IN SOUTHEAST ASIA.
CONSEQUENCES OF
THESE TECHNIQUES ARE
NON-SELECTIVE DEATH OF
MANY SPECIES OF FISH,
THE DESTRUCTION OF
CORAL REEFS, AND THUS
THE BASIS FOR
SUSTAINABLE FISHING.
BECAUSE OF THE SLOW GROWTH
OF CORAL REEFS, WHICH
CONSTITUTE THE HABITAT
OF MANY SPECIES OF FISH,
MANY OF THESE FISH
MIGRATE TO OTHER REEFS
THAT HAVE NOT YET
BEEN DESTROYED.
MANY ARE THE WAYS
THAT MAN HAS DEVISED
TO DESTROY THE SEA.
AND THERE SEEMS TO
BE NO END IN SIGHT.
THE OCEANS AND THE
COASTS SEEM TO BE SUBJECT
TO THE LAW OF THE
JUNGLE, OR AT LEAST
SUBJECT TO LAWS WHICH
ARE BARELY ENFORCED.
TODAY THERE ARE
150 MILLION PEOPLE
WORKING IN THE FISHING
INDUSTRY OF WHICH 90%
DO SO IN
DEVELOPING NATIONS,
ESPECIALLY IN
AFRICA AND ASIA.
FISHING PROVIDES 20%
OF THE CONSUMPTION
OF ANIMAL PROTEINS
IN DEVELOPING NATIONS
AND MORE THAN 25%
IN THE POOREST NATIONS.
LOCAL FISHING IS
AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
CIVIL SOCIETY
AND OTHER NATIONS
CAN SPONTANEOUSLY FIGHT
AGAINST THE ORGANIZATIONS
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY.
IT IS A WAY OF LIFE THAT
IS FAST BECOMING EXTINCT
BUT THAT COULD BE A VIABLE
ALTERNATIVE FOR HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
WHO VIEW EMIGRATION
AS THE ONLY SOLUTION TO
THEIR EXTREME POVERTY.
FISHING COMMUNITIES ARE
USUALLY OVERPOPULATED
AND ARE CHARACTERIZED
BY THEIR PRECARIOUS
LIVING CONDITIONS.
THE LITERACY LEVEL IS
LOW SINCE THEY HAVE FEW
BASIC SERVICES SUCH AS
ACCESS TO EDUCATION
AND BASIC HEALTH CARE.
THE ROOT OF THE PROBLEM
IS THAT LOCAL FISHERMEN
DO NOT ALWAYS HAVE ACCESS
TO FISH RICH AREAS.
THE AGREEMENTS BETWEEN
THEIR GOVERNMENTS AND THE
WORLD POWERS HAS LEFT THEM
LITTLE CHANCE FOR SURVIVAL.
THEIR WORLD IS
DISAPPEARING BUT
THEY HAVE NO ALTERNATE
SOURCES OF EMPLOYMENT
AND MANY OF THEM
DON'T EVEN OWN
THE PROPERTY
THEY LIVE ON.
FISHING IS ONE OF THE MOST
DANGEROUS OCCUPATIONS
IN THE WORLD, WHICH
MEANS THAT THE FEW GOODS
THAT FAMILIES OWN
- BOATS AND GEAR -
ARE CONSTANTLY IN PERIL.
THE LOSS OF AN ACTIVE
MEMBER OF A FAMILY DUE TO
SICKNESS OR DISABILITY
COULD SPELL DISASTER.
UNTIL JUST A FEW YEARS
AGO, THESE SMALL BOATS
DID NOT TRAVEL PAST 15
OR 20 MILES FROM THE COAST.
TRAVELING 100 MILES FROM
THE COAST WAS CONSIDERED
AN ODYSSEY; A RARE FEAT
FOR LOCAL FISHERMEN.
COMPETITION AMONG LARGE
INTERNATIONAL VESSELS
HAS FORCED THEM TO
TAKE MORE RISKS.
TODAY LOCAL FISHERMEN
TRAVEL UP TO 400, 500,
AND 600 MILES
FROM THE COAST.
THEY RISK THEIR LIVES
IN SEARCH OF FISH.
THE POVERTY AND
VULNERABILITY OF THE
FISHING COMMUNITIES
COMBINED WITH OTHER
FACTORS SUCH AS THEIR
HIGH DEGREE OF MOBILITY
EXPOSES THEM TO
OTHER PROBLEMS.
FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL
ORGANIZATION STUDIES SHOW
THAT FISHING COMMUNITIES
OF MANY DEVELOPING NATIONS
IN AFRICA, ASIA,
AND CENTRAL AMERICA
HAVE BETWEEN FIVE AND
14 TIMES MORE CASES OF
HIV INFECTIONS THAN THE
REST OF THE POPULATION.
BESIDES THIS HUMAN COST,
POVERTY AMONG FISHERMEN
MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR
THEM TO ADEQUATELY MARKET
THE FRUITS
OF THEIR LABOR.
THIS WILL NOT IMPROVE UNTIL
MORE EFFORTS ARE MADE
TO COMBAT POVERTY
AMONG FISHERMEN.
POOR PEOPLE CANNOT DEFEND
THEIR LONG TERM INTERESTS
OR ACCESS FISH RICH AREAS
IN THEIR OWN WATERS.
THE SOLUTION IS
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT.
GREATER INVESTMENTS IN
EDUCATION AND HEALTH CARE
WILL NOT ONLY HELP
TO COMBAT POVERTY
AND SOCIAL PROBLEMS
BUT WILL GREATER EASE
FISHING
RELATED PROBLEMS.
TO FIND AN EFFICIENT
SOLUTION TO POVERTY
AND TO THE SOCIAL PROBLEMS
OF FISHING COMMUNITIES
IS ONE OF THE MORE PRESSING
PROBLEMS OF OUR AGE.
ONE OF THE ALTERNATIVES
DESIGNED TO AVOID THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF CERTAIN
COMMERCIAL FISH SPECIES
IS THE INDUSTRIAL
FISH FARM.
THESE ARE MARINE FARMS
IN WHICH FISH ARE BRED
IN LARGE AMOUNTS
AND VERY QUICKLY.
A SOLUTION? IT DOES
SATISFY MARKET DEMAND,
BUT IT IS NOT A
SUSTAINABLE ALTERNATIVE.
IN ORDER TO BUILD FISH
FARMS IN ASIA, FOR EXAMPLE,
AMPLE SECTIONS OF
CORAL REEFS AND MANGROVES
WERE ELIMINATED.
AND NOT ONLY WAS THE
ENVIRONMENT DESTROYED,
IN MANY CASES EVEN LOCAL
COMMUNITIES WERE DISPLACED
IN ORDER TO MAINTAIN THE
PURITY OF FARM WATERS.
THE BREEDING PROCESS
IS INTENSIVE.
ANIMAL FEED IS USED
TO FEED THE FISH
AS WELL AS CHEMICAL
FERTILIZERS AND ANTIBIOTICS
IN ORDER TO AVOID
EPIDEMICS FROM
DOING AWAY WITH
A CROP OF FISH.
THE RESULTS ARE THE
BREEDING OF LOWER
QUALITY FISH AND PERMANENT
DAMAGE TO THE COAST.
DUE TO THE PROLIFERATION
OF FISH FARMS,
AMONG OTHER FACTORS,
THE PROCESS OF
COASTAL DESTRUCTION
IS QUITE ADVANCED.
INDIA POSSESSES ONLY
30% OF WHAT IT HAD
THREE DECADES AGO.
AND IN INDONESIA IN SOME
ISLANDS 70% OF THE COAST
HAS ALREADY
BEEN DESTROYED.
FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL
ORGANIZATION DATA
SHOWS THAT WE CANNOT
CAPTURE MORE THAN
100 MILLION TONS
OF EXPLOITED SPECIES
WITHOUT DAMAGING
FISH RICH SEA BEDS.
BUT DEMAND IS
MUCH GREATER.
ONE OF THE SHORT
TERM SOLUTIONS
IS MODERATE
AQUACULTURE.
THAT IS, BREEDING
FISH IN CAGES, TANKS,
OR MARINE CELLS.
IT IS A POSSIBILITY BUT WE
MUST BE AWARE OF THE RISKS.
FISH FARMS ARE THE GREAT
BET FOR THE FUTURE.
GENEROUS PUBLIC INCENTIVES
HAVE STIMULATED THEIR
PROLIFERATION ALL
OVER THE WORLD.
BECAUSE OF THIS, THE
DEMAND FOR FISH FLOUR HAS
RISEN, WHICH IS USED TO
MAKE THE ANIMAL FEED
TO FEED THE FISH BORN
AND BRED IN CAPTIVITY.
THIS FLOUR IS ALSO
MADE UP OF KRILL
AND SMALL CRUSTACEANS
THAT LIVE IN THE OCEAN.
THIS UNSTOPPABLE RISE IN
AQUACULTURE WILL ENTAIL
AN EVER-INCREASING RISE
IN THE CAPTURE OF KRILL
AND CRUSTACEANS IN
ORDER TO TEND TO THE
INCREASING DEMAND FOR
FISH FLOUR ANIMAL FEED.
AN UNCONTROLLED INCREASE
IN THEIR CAPTURE COULD
ENDANGER THE SURVIVAL OF
WHALES, SEALS, AND OTHER
ANIMALS THAT FEED OFF
THIS MARINE RESOURCE.
FISH FARMS COULD BE
ONE OF THE SOLUTIONS,
BUT WE ARE STILL
FAR FROM MAKING THEM
COMPATIBLE WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL NEEDS.
ANOTHER GREAT
CHALLENGE LIES AHEAD.
ON THE INDONESIAN COAST ON
THE ISLAND OF SULAWESI,
THE BADJAO PEOPLE
MAKE THEIR HOME.
THE BADJAO ARE NOMADS
THAT LIVE AND DIE
ON THEIR LIGHT CANOES.
THEY FEEL FREE ON THE
OCEAN AND IT IS THE OCEAN
THAT GIVES
THEM EVERYTHING.
THE WOOD THEIR CANOES
ARE MADE FROM IS AS HARD
AS STEEL AND THEY
CAN LAST A LIFETIME.
A WHOLE FAMILY
LIVES INSIDE.
COOKING IS DONE
IN THE STERN.
THE ROOMS AND PANTRY
ARE IN THE MIDDLE,
AND IN THE BOW,
THE LIVING ROOM.
THE BADJAO NEVER DRIFT
TOO FAR FROM THE COAST.
THEY ALWAYS STAY CLOSE TO
CORAL REEFS AND MANGROVES.
MANGROVES ARE VITAL TO THE
BALANCE OF THE ECOSYSTEM.
THEY CREATE A BARRIER
BETWEEN THE WATER AND LAND
THAT AVOIDS EROSION.
WHAT'S MORE, THEIR ROOTS
PROVIDE HAVEN FOR HUNDREDS
OF ORGANISMS THAT
IN TURN PROVIDE FOOD
FOR OTHER ANIMALS
AS WELL AS FOR MAN.
THEY ALSO LIKE TO NAVIGATE
ON LARGE SEAWEED BANKS.
SEAWEED ARE THE
BADJAO'S CALENDAR.
ON THE THIRD DAY OF
EACH MONTH THEY OPEN UP
AND THEY DO SO AGAIN ON
TENTH AND THE FIFTEENTH.
FROM THE SIXTEENTH
TO THE TWENTIETH
THEY REMAIN CLOSED, AND
FROM THE TWENTIETH ON,
THEIR COLOR
IS VERY INTENSE.
BUT THE REASON THEY'RE
KNOWN AS A CREATIVE PEOPLE
IS BECAUSE OF THEIR
KITE FISHING TECHNIQUE
WHICH IS QUITE SIMPLE
AND VERY EFFICIENT.
A HOOK IS TIED TO A KITE
MADE FROM FERN LEAVES
AND WITH THE
HELP OF A POLE
THE FISHERMAN CAN CAST THE
HOOK AS FAR AS HE WANTS TO.
THE MOVEMENT OF
THE KITE ENSURES
THAT THE HOOK
IS ALWAYS MOVING,
WHICH ATTRACTS
MAINLY FLYING FISH.
KITE FISHING IS NOT THE
ONLY WAY THEY FISH.
THE BADJAO ARE, MORE THAN
ANYTHING, GREAT DIVERS.
THEY CAN REMAIN UNDER WATER
FOR UP TO FIVE MINUTES
AND CAN REACH DEPTHS
OF UP TO 15 METERS.
IN ORDER TO DO SO THEY
USE THEIR STOMACH MUSCLES
TO CONTROL THE
FLOW OF OXYGEN
AND THUS CONTROL THE AIR
THAT LEAVES THEIR LUNGS.
THE ORIGINS OF THE
BADJAO ARE UNKNOWN,
BUT THEY KNOW THAT
THEY'RE NOT ALONE.
OTHERS LIKE THEM LIVE
ALONG THE COASTS
OF EASTERN ASIA.
THERE ARE SEA FARING
NOMADS IN THE PHILIPPINES,
THAILAND, BURMA AND
VIETNAM, AND THEY ALL FACE
THE SAME THREATS - SLOW
AND STEADY EXTINCTION.
NOMADS ALL OVER THE
WORLD ARE FALLING VICTIM
TO THE SICKNESS
OF THE OCEAN.
THE WATERS OF EASTERN
SEAS ARE DYING
DUE TO THE DESTRUCTION.
HOTEL RESORTS
AND FISH FARMS
ARE BEING
CREATED EVERYWHERE.
AND FORESTS ARE
BEING DESTROYED,
CAUSING UNPRECEDENTED
EROSION.
CORAL REEFS AND MANGROVES
ARE DISAPPEARING,
FURTHER IMPOVERISHING
SMALL FISHING COMMUNITIES.
MANY BADJAO HAVE MOVED TO
PERMANENT SETTLEMENTS.
THE INDONESIAN GOVERNMENT
BUILT HOUSES FOR THEM
ON THE COAST BUT THEY
HAVEN'T GOTTEN USED TO
THE PRESSURE OF LAND
UNDER THEIR FEET.
THEY'VE GONE BACK
TO THE WATER.
AN ALTERNATIVE TO LIVING
ON LAND IS THE TOROSIYI
SETTLEMENT MADE UP OF
LAKE DWELLING LIKE HOMES,
WHICH ARE HALF
WAY BETWEEN CANOES
AND THE SOLIDITY
OF BRICK HOMES.
IN TOROSIYI THE BADJAO
HAVE ELECTRICITY,
A SCHOOL, A HEALTH
CENTER AND A MOSQUE.
FACED WITH THE
PROSPECT OF
DECREASING
OCEAN RESOURCES,
300 FAMILIES HAVE SETTLED
IN THESE NEW HOMES.
IN A FEW YEARS THERE WILL
BE NO MORE NOMADS LEFT
ON THE EASTERN COASTS.
IS THIS DEVELOPMENT?
MAYBE, THOUGH
IF THE OCEAN DIES
NOT EVEN THEIR NEW
DWELLINGS WILL BE ABLE
TO SAVE THEM FROM
THEIR OWN DESTRUCTION.
LOCAL AND
INDUSTRIAL FISHING
- TWO PERSPECTIVES
OF THE SAME REALITY.
LOCAL FISHERMEN WOULD
NOT BE ABLE TO FEED THE
MILLIONS OF CONSUMERS
OF DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
THAT DEMAND THE
PRODUCTS OF THE OCEAN.
BUT NEITHER CAN WE
CONTINUE TO DESTROY
EVERYTHING THAT
GETS IN OUR WAY.
WILL WE BE ABLE TO FIND
MIDDLE GROUND IN THE NEXT
FEW DECADES - A WAY THAT
TAKES ADVANTAGE OF THE
FRUITS OF THE OCEAN
WITHOUT SERIOUSLY
COMPROMISING FUTURE
GENERATIONS?
THIS IS THE CHALLENGE
THAT LIES BEFORE US
AND IT IS NO
ORDINARY CHALLENGE,
FOR OUR VERY EXISTENCE
DEPENDS ON OUR
ABILITY TO MEET IT.